+++
title = 'About Me'
hidden = true
+++

With over a decade of experience as a creative full-stack web developer, my main expertise lies in developing innovative concepts and prototyping them into digital experiences. I thrive on transforming ideas into engaging, interactive experiences. I've developed robust design systems that ensure consistency and efficiency throughout the development process. By blending leading web technologies with a deep understanding of user experience, I build seamless and intuitive interfaces which will engage and delight users.

### History

Coding and computers have been a part of my life for as long as I can remember, as someone who grew up in the pre internet era and seeing the massive impact it had on the world around me has given me unique perspective on tech and how it's used in our lives. 

During my later years at high school and sixth-form college was really my initial exposure to the web beyond just browsing websites. We had small (10mb!) amounts of webspace at the college I attended and were encouraged to build our own websites. There wasn't much information around in those days, and we build those crude sites mostly through trial and error using Front Page, little did I know this would eventually become my future career. 

After college, I went on to study BSc Web Design and Development at university, at the time still quite a new topic. The web and technology was rapidly evolving, and it was the blogging communities that existed at the time, and the explosion of platforms such as WordPress and Expression Engine, which brought me into a new world where content and knowledge was being shared in a completely new way. I began to become more involved in open source projects such as these, as well as diving head-first into the world of Unix based servers. 

On graduating from university, my first job was at a small design agency who I had done small projects for whilst still at university. Being a design studio their workflow was based around desktop design tools such as Illustrator, Photoshop and Fireworks, as this work began to extend on to the web I worked on platforms such as Flash and Dreamweaver to create these early sites. This is a time I recall there were no real established conventions on designing for the web. In some ways it was like the wild west, but I like to look back on it as a period of unbridled creativity, the likes of which we are unlikely to ever see again on the web. It was a new era and people were only just starting to grasp what was possible on the web, levels of interactivity that were previously unheard of. 

Time moved on, the iPhone came out and eventually killed Flash, and we began to see browser manufacturers take the web more seriously. Mozilla's Firefox browser started to challenge the dominance of Microsoft's Internet Explorer browser, and later we saw the emergence of Chrome and Safari, which meant suddenly the tooling available to the average web developer was much better. It was also around this time we saw the rise of responsive web design, as people begun to use the web on phones and tablets. This leads me getting more into CSS and JavaScript, I still have fond memories of browsing through the CSS Zen Garden to see what people had created. It was also a time we started to see web applications begin to take off. I still remember how revolutionary Gmail was when it came out and the start of AJAX applications. The web was becoming more technical, and we started to see new specialisms emerge, developers begun to split into front-end and back-end. 

It was a period of tremendous growth for that agency, and I was part of an amazing journey which saw us going from a small old garage in Bolton working on projects for small local businesses to offices in central Manchester working web projects for household names. I joined another creative agency in Manchester known for its innovative marketing campaigns. By this point I had done a lot of work on WordPress, but at that time it didn't scale particularly well, and we didn't have the deployment technology we have today, so I wanted to work on something different. It was at this time I switched over to the Python/Django framework, still using a lot of the front end that I had learned, I wanted something that was more deployable and customizable than WordPress. I was also working on web projects for some of the agencies large, retained clients, which meant liaising with external dev teams, which was something I hadn't done before. 

Keen to continue on my quest for a customizable CMS platform which wasn't template focused, I joined another marketing agency that were having success with their home rolled CMS. They were a long-established integrated marketing agency that had chosen to innovate and develop their own CMS solution. It was built on the new (at the time) Laravel PHP framework. Getting into Laravel opened up a whole new world to me about how placing developer experience at the top of the project's priorities lead to one of the most vibrant and productive web framework communities I've ever seen. I would still build out front ends using HTML, SASS and JavaScript libraries such as Vue and React. The projects we worked on grew in size, and eventually we began to take on e-commerce and bespoke CRM builds, as well as the design-heavy brand integration that the agency had built their reputation on. During my time there I worked on a number of projects where we rebuilt the entire front ends of university websites, these projects usually started out as a branding and positioning job, which would eventually lead to a total front end rebuild. This is where I began to work on design systems. Designing and building each page was not possible, we needed to create commonly used components that could be combined to create content and layouts which reflects the unique brand of the client. Atomic Web Design was a huge influence on us as we built out our components going from atoms, to molecules, to organisms and eventually full page builds. We used the custom CMS that we had worked on to manage and showcase the system, and we were able to work closely with the internal teams at the universities to create their new front ends. We had a lot of success with this workflow creating design systems that really stood the test of time and are still in use to this day.

I decided that I wanted to take my career further into the world of design systems, so I left my last agency role to join the global sports and leisurewear retailer JD. This was my first role outside an agency and the opportunity to join a multidisciplined team working on a large enterprise web application. It was a huge learning curve for me, but the team that I had joined was tasked with putting together a new front end for the multifaceted JD e-commerce application. This was an application that spanned over many markets and incorporated the many brands that were under the JD umbrella, so no small feat. Our approach was to focus on engineering at scale, this meant not only building our components using a TDD methodology but also having a strict CI/CD pipeline ensuring that standards were upheld. For the first time, I was discussing coding standards with other developers and focusing on new elements of the workflow that I hadn't considered before. Unfortunately, the new front end never reached full implementation, owing to the companies changes in structure and approach, and the team was eventually broken up and placed on other projects. 

In this industry, I believe there will always be new skills to learn and new challenges to face. Looking back over my career, I've always tried to lean into new technologies, but at the same time bringing with me the lessons that I've learned on past projects. 